# AKF-NAS (Abukhleif Native Automation System)
An advanced -OPEN SOURCE- automation framework (based on Selenium) with custom code injection ability. 
## V 3.6 released with Advanced Reporting Features.
* The Project source opened for public!
* Check out the change log (below) for more details.

## Native Version of the System:
* This version includes the (native) basic java-driven application to generate and execute
XML-based samples cases, the samples cases can be manually written as xml files or
automatically generated by convert java codes to xml files.
* Each samples file will generate a report after executing it.

## Main Features:
* Test File Hierarchy:
    * Site: Main site [The only unique block]
        * Scenario
            * Unit: [Page] or [Form]
                * [Actions]
            * Unit
                * [Actions]
            * ...
        * Scenario
            * Unit
                * [Actions]
            * ...
        * ...
   
   Note: Site, Scenario, and units support dealing with null values in case the user does not need
      to deal with (some of) their properties. Provided samples can illustrate some of these cases.
      
* Supported Actions:
    * Main Actions:
        * Click: Click any button.
            * All possibilities to choose the elements (id, name, XPath, etc..) are supported by
             a unique identifier [id], the same for unit [Page/Form] urls. 
        * Click Checkbox: Click any checkbox (limited).
        * Fill Element: fill any input field.
        * Store: Store data from any web page for later uses.
        * Manual Store: Store any data for later uses [entered manually by user].
        * Respond Alert: Respond to any web alert with accept or deny.
        * Select: Select an element from a dropdown (or drop up) (limited).
        * VerifyText: Verify if the page contains a text.
        * VerifyNotText: Verify if the page does not contains a text.
            * Useful with error pages.
        * VerifyAlert: Verify the text of an alert.
        
    * Advanced Actions:
        * **Custom**: Gives the user the ability to inject the scenarios with custom Java code, for any reason
        or unsupported features in the framework. The injected code will be compiled and executed
        at runtime (using the src/com/abukhleif/akfnas/runtime package classes). Additional actions with custom code:
            * **Import**: Allows the user to add any number of imports statement to his/her custom code.
            * **Extend**: Allows the user to inherit any superclass.
                * By default: our base framework is inherited.
            * **Implement**: Allow the user to implements any interface.
                * [Limited]: The user can not override or add any methods [at least for now].
        * **Submit**: Allows the user to submit the form any time, and do any other actions either
        before or after submitting the form.
            * Both Submit by click a button or by using any form element are supported.
        * **Note**: Allows the user to add custom notes to the final report.
        
* **Advanced Reporting System**: the Extent framework is used for reporting every step in the scenarios.
    * Each scenario has a separated section for its steps.
    * Each step can have one of these statuses:
        * Pass: Step passed.
        * Fail: Step failed.
        * Skip: Step skipped.
        * Fatal: Step has an exception.
        * Note: Step contains an info and not a test.
    * Each scenario can have one of these statuses:
        * Pass: All steps passed [or info].
        * Skip:
            * At least, one step passed, the other steps passed [or info]. OR:
            * The scenario is depend on a previous failed or skipped scenario.
        * Fail: At least, one step is failed, the other can be passed, skipped, or info.
        * Fatal: At least, one step has a fatal error.
    * Full features of the reporting framework can be found at: http://extentreports.com
        
* **Dependencies between Scenarios**: Each scenario can depend on one or many previous scenarios, so 
 that the scenario will be skipped in case of at least on dependency failed or skipped.
 
* **Multiple Browsers Supported** to run tests:
     * Chrome [Tested]
     * FireFox
     * IE
     * HeadLess [Tested]
     
* **Easy Integration** with other applications: all actions are supported and can be used via the
'midtier' package, which contain 2 classes:
    * Writer: Can be used for writing tests in Java, and generate the XML file.
        * The user can -directly- write his/her own xml file too.
    * Executer: Which can be used to execute any XML tests file.
    
* **Manual Written or Java Generated XML Test Files**:  The user can write his/her XML tests file, 
or write the Java code for testing (using the scr/com/abukhleif/akfnas/midtier/Writer class), then execute the result file
-in both cases- (using the src/com/abukhleif/akfnas/midtier/Executer class).
        
* Built with Polymorphism and other OO principals in mind. 
* Samples provided for a quick start using the framework.
* Explore the rest yourself.

## Run and Testing:
* Project includes many sample files which can be used as a reference or a guide
to help you write your own files.
* Project also includes the Java classes which used to generate the samples files,
 you can also use them as a guide if you prefer to write your samples files using
 Java instead of XML, and adding one command will take the responsibility of
 converting your Java code to XML file.
* ExecuterTester Class is an example of how can the files tests
executed, you can create your own class or just use it as is.
* Reports are the final results, each test will generate a report to display
the results.

### Samples:
* All Samples can be found at: http://www.abukhleif.com/projects-data/AKF-NAS/samples/
    * Java Samples: Contains the Java Classes which used to generate the XML test files.
    * XML: XML test file samples.
    * Reports: all generated reports after run each of the previous xml tests file.

### Dependencies (Maven):
        <dependency>
            <groupId>org.seleniumhq.selenium</groupId>
            <artifactId>selenium-java</artifactId>
            <version>3.3.1</version>
        </dependency>
        <dependency>
            <groupId>io.github.bonigarcia</groupId>
            <artifactId>webdrivermanager</artifactId>
            <version>1.6.2</version>
        </dependency>
        <dependency>
            <groupId>com.aventstack</groupId>
            <artifactId>extentreports</artifactId>
            <version>3.0.6</version>
        </dependency>
        
### TECHNOLOGIES USED:
* Java (with IntelliJ IDEA IDE)
* Jaxb (XML Parsing Library)
* Maven
* Selenium Webdriver
* Extent (Reporting Library)

## Change Log:
#### V 3.6 [July 17, 2017] - First Public Release:
* **The Project source opened for public!**
* Samples removed, you still can access them by downloading them from the provided link (above).
* Features list added to the project description (above).
* Other minor changes and code cleanup.

#### V 3.5:
* **Extent Reporting System** used instead of our previous native reporting system, in order
to provide the team with advanced reports and visual data summaries.
    * Full features of Extent can be found at: http://extentreports.com/
    * All report samples updated to the new version of reports.
* Other minor changes.

#### V N3.4:
* Add **Scenario Dependencies** Feature: The user could add dependencies between scenarios,
so that the scenario which depend on another won't be executed unless the other one has been
succesfully executed without any failed steps.
* Other minor changes.

#### V N3.3:
* Errors catching and reporting at unit (page and form) level.
    * Errors catching at test file level still available and work.
* Other minor changes:
    * New Report sample illustrate error reporting at unit level added
    (guru99_UnitErrorCatch-...html).

#### V N3.2:
* Add **Extend** statement to the **custom code** action, using this action
the user could extend any Java class.
    * By default: Base framework class is inherited.
* Add **Implement** statement to the **custom code** action, using this action
the user could implement any Java interface.
    * The user could add as much as he wants implement actions.
    * The user 'at least currently' can not override interfaces' methods.
    * By default: No interfaces inherited.
* Other minor changes:
        * Redesign custom notes (in reports)
        * New samples added to (java com/abukhleif/akfnas/samples/reports/ xml files).

#### V N3.1 - N3.1.2:
* User can add **custom notes** to the report.
* Add **Import** statements to the **custom code** action.
* Other minor changes:
    * 'test' package renamed to '**com.abukhleif.akfnas.samples**'.
    * New samples added to (java samples/ reports/ xml files).

#### V N3.0.1:
* Code Cleanup.

#### V N3.0:
* Add **Custom** action, which enable the user (Tests File writer) to 
inject a java code and execute it directly in case of he/she did not find the
 feature he/she look about in our framework.
* Improve Report design.
* Improve Reporter and Base framework.
* Add Samples for the new feature (Custom Code injection) under Java Writer
and Executer classes, in addition to the generated xml file!
* Other minor changes.

#### V N2.10:
* **Step-By-Step Report Generation**, which guarantee writing the result in case of
 execution errors or exceptions. Error messages (causes) written to end of the
 report to state the error.
* Base framework code clean up.
* Other minor changes and bugs fixing.

#### V N2.9:
* Multiple Browsers Support:
    * Chrome [Tested]
    * FireFox
    * IE
    * HeadLess [Tested]

#### V N2.8:
* New (and better) **design** for reports.
* Reports titled with help of xml file name which used to run the samples in addition
to the date and time of the execution.
* **Click** and **Submit** actions appears in the final report.
* Other minor changes and bug fixing.
* In Pages and Forms, if both of url and relative attributes values are null 
(no values) resulting in staying at the same page or form and use all actions
of the unit (page or form). This can help in execute the scenarios in more
logical (natural) way, and generates more readable and natural reports.
* Other minor changes.

#### V 2.0, V1.9.2, V1.9.1:
* Minor changes and bugs fixing.

#### V1.9:
* **ChromeDriver** using **Maven** instead of include it in the project package.
* Other minor changes and bugs fixing.

#### V1.8:
* Changes in reports design.
* Other minor changes and bugs fixing.

#### V1.7.1:
* Minor changes and bugs fixing.

#### V1.7:
* Adding any action to an instance of Writer class results in adding it directly,
**no need for committing each group of actions** separately.
* Other minor changes and bugs fixing.

#### V1.6:
* Fix FillElement action reading process from stored data.
* Add **VerifyAlert** and **RespondAlert** actions which helps in dealing with
popup alerts from websites.
* Form **Submit** action supports both submitting by the submit method via any
form element, or via clicking a button.
* Rename actions: (Text --> **VerifyText**, NotText --> **VerifyNotText**).
* **Reporter** (renamed from Reportable) class can be used by any class without
the need to extend it, all classes will accesses one shared copy of the
Reporter instance.
* Add **WriterTester** and **ExecuterTester** to help in generate and execute
XML files via Java code.
* Other minor changes and bugs fixing.

#### V1.5:
* New (and better) **design** for reports.
* Add Form **Submit** as a new action, this will help in execute other actions
and/or verifications either before or after the form submit action.
* **Header** and **Footers** added to the **reports**, for entering the main site, and for
each page and form, so the QA can easily read the results (from the report) in its natural order
including the actions resulting in each group of verification results.
* **Relative** attribute added to both of **Page** and **Form**, setting this
 attribute to "yes" results in combine the main site URL, the slash sign (/),
 and current page or form url. On the other hand, the QA still have the ability
 to use static URLs via setting this attribute to "no".
* **CSS** is now the only used way to design report rows, instead of some
deprecated html tags.
* Other minor changes and bugs fixing.

#### V1.4:
* Add **Click** .action.
* Add **ClickCheckbox** action.
* Add **FillElement** action, to fill text input fields.
* Add **Store** action, this .action help the user (QA) to store any cdata from
the web page/form and use it anywhere during the samples.
* Add **ManualStore** action, this action help the user (QA) to store any
useful data and use it anywhere during the samples.
* Update **Data** class to store data via Store and ManualStore actions, 
in addition to other data.
* Add **Text** action, this action verifies if the page contain this text.
* Add **NotText** action, this action verifies if the page does not contain
this text, useful for error messages discovering.
* Add **Select** action, to select any option from a dropDown (or dropUp) menu.
* A new **DriverUtils** class added and used in find web elements in all possible
ways using single attribute (id).
* Reports redesign.
* Add **Form** unit. All actions can completely work with forms as pages. 
* Add **Unit** class which the Form and Page classes extend to apply
 polymorphism principles.
* Update **Site** scope class, and add name and url properties to it.
* Other minor changes and bugs fixing.

#### V1.3:
* Add **Data** to store data, both the data stored by the user, and some
other needed data like the main site url.
* Other minor changes and bugs fixing.

#### V1.2:
* Add **Action** abstract class, all actions extend this class, each page now
has only to have a list of actions, not a list for each action type,
 this also help in conserve the natural order of actions and applying polymorphism. 
* Add **Scope** abstract class, all scopes extend this class.
* Delete Action and Scope interfaces due to incompatibility between Selenium WebDriver
and Interfaces!
* Update **Page** unit, and add **Parse** method to execute all children
actions of the page.
* Update **Scenario** scope class.
* Add Main **Site** scope class.
* Other minor changes and bugs fixing.

#### V1.1:
* Add **Reportable** class.
* Update **Base** Framework.
* Update **Page** unit.
* Add **Action Interface**.
* All Actions added but not yet implemented.
* Add **Page** unit.
* Add **Scenario** scope.
* Add **Scope** interface.
* Other minor changes and bugs fixing.

##### V1.0:
* Initial Release.
